>> Richard Feldman: Now, another function
guarantee that we have in Elm besides same
arguments, same results,
is no side effects.
Which is to say,
whenever you run an Elm function,
it's not allowed to modify
any external state.
It can't, all it can do is return a value,
that's it.
And that's all it can do.
So an example that would
sort of violate this rule
while satisfying the first rule
is a fire-and-forget HTTP POST.
So let's say I run a function in
JavaScript that says, you know what?
If you give me the same arguments,
I'm always going to do the same HTTP post.
But I'm still gonna fire it off.
I'm gonna send it off to the server and
that's gonna modify the external state
that's on the server, like the database.
Something's gonna change, but hey,
the function, same argument, same result.
It just sort of sneakily did this
other thing at the same time.
So in Elm, that's not allowed.
You cannot do side effects
inside Elm functions.
So even though this satisfies the first
function guarantee of same arguments,
same result,
it does not satisfy the second one.
And all Elm functions
have to satisfy both.
Okay, so instead of doing side effects,
Elm does what's known as managed effects.
Which is to say that any side effects
have to be done through commands.
All you can do in any Elm function
that you write, is you can say, yeah,
I want to give you back a description
of commands that I want to run, or
side effects that I want to have happen.
But the run time is going to perform them.
Which means that any Elm function you
call, is going to be a pure function,
guaranteed.
The entire language,
everything we've been doing the entire
day has been all pure functions.
And that's going to continue throughout
the rest of the workshop and the entire
advanced workshop, because that's the only
type of functions that Elm supports.
All of these side affecting stuff, all
the stuff where you get different values
depending on context all of that
is isolated to the runtime and
completely separate from stuff
we do as Elm programmers.